[cni-cilium] cilium connectivity test doc (#4118)
deckhouse/deckhouse: modules/021-cni-cilium/docs/internal/CONNECTIVITY_TESTS.md

# Cilium connectivity tests

## How to run

```bash
cilium connectivity test -n d8-cni-cilium --single-node --hubble=false --agent-daemonset-name=agent --agent-pod-selector app=agent --assume-cilium-version 1.12.7
```

## Openstack

### bpfLBMode=Hybrid + tunnelMode=Disabled

Cilium settings:

```yaml
bpfLBMode: Hybrid
tunnelMode: Disabled
```

Problems with using this mode:

> - It is not possible to access nodes (curl) from the pod network using node internal ip addresses (except node where is pod is located).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is impossible to access nodes (curl) from the Pod network using node internal IP addresses (except the node where the Pod is located).
```

  ❌ no-policies-extra/pod-to-remote-nodeport/curl-5: cilium-test/client2-67754cb6fb-h8zh6 (10.111.6.72) -> cilium-test/echo-same-node (echo-same-node:8080)
  ❌ no-policies-extra/pod-to-remote-nodeport/curl-6: cilium-test/client2-67754cb6fb-h8zh6 (10.111.6.72) -> cilium-test/echo-same-node (echo-same-node:8080)
  ❌ no-policies-extra/pod-to-remote-nodeport/curl-7: cilium-test/client2-67754cb6fb-h8zh6 (10.111.6.72) -> cilium-test/echo-same-node (echo-same-node:8080)
  ❌ no-policies-extra/pod-to-remote-nodeport/curl-8: cilium-test/client2-67754cb6fb-h8zh6 (10.111.6.72) -> cilium-test/echo-same-node (echo-same-node:8080)
  ❌ no-policies-extra/pod-to-remote-nodeport/curl-9: cilium-test/client2-67754cb6fb-h8zh6 (10.111.6.72) -> cilium-test/echo-same-node (echo-same-node:8080)
```

Cilium settings:

```yaml
bpfLBMode: SNAT
```

An example of the results of the connectivity tests:

```text
✅ All 32 tests (246 actions) successful, 0 tests skipped, 0 scenarios skipped.
```

## Yandex

### bpfLBMode=Hybrid + tunnelMode=Disabled

Cilium settings:

```yaml
bpfLBMode: Hybrid
tunnelMode: Disabled
```

Problems with using this mode:

> - It is not possible to access nodes (curl, ping) from the pod network using internal ip addresses of nodes (except node where is pod is located).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is impossible to access nodes (curl, ping) from the pod network using the internal IP addresses of nodes (except the node where the Pod is located).
```

An example of the results of the connectivity tests:

> Connection tests do not run because the internal node ip is not available from the pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connection tests do not run because the internal node IP is not available from the Pod.
```

```text
⌛ [k8s-dev-cluster] Waiting for NodePort 10.233.32.10:30860 (cilium-test/echo-same-node) to become ready...
connectivity test failed: timeout reached waiting for NodePort 10.233.32.10:30860 (cilium-test/echo-same-node) (last error: context deadline exceeded)
```

### bpfLBMode=SNAT + tunnelMode=Disabled

Cilium settings:

```yaml
bpfLBMode: SNAT
tunnelMode: Disabled
```

Problems with using this mode:

> - It is not possible to access nodes (curl, ping) from the pod network using external ip addresses of nodes (except node where is pod is located).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is impossible to access nodes (curl, ping) from the Pod network using external IP addresses of nodes (except the node where the Pod is located).
```

  ❌ allow-all-except-world/pod-to-host/ping-9: cilium-test/client2-67754cb6fb-bjvrk (10.111.60.94) -> 51.250.79.66 (51.250.79.66:0)
Test [host-entity]:
  ❌ host-entity/pod-to-host/ping-1: cilium-test/client-784c67ffc4-m4tth (10.111.60.213) -> 84.201.158.188 (84.201.158.188:0)
  ❌ host-entity/pod-to-host/ping-3: cilium-test/client-784c67ffc4-m4tth (10.111.60.213) -> 51.250.79.66 (51.250.79.66:0)
  ❌ host-entity/pod-to-host/ping-7: cilium-test/client2-67754cb6fb-bjvrk (10.111.60.94) -> 84.201.158.188 (84.201.158.188:0)
  ❌ host-entity/pod-to-host/ping-9: cilium-test/client2-67754cb6fb-bjvrk (10.111.60.94) -> 51.250.79.66 (51.250.79.66:0)
connectivity test failed: 4 tests failed
```

How to fix it:

```bash
kubectl patch -n d8-cni-cilium cm cilium-config --patch='{"data":{"enable-bpf-masquerade":"false","enable-ipv4-egress-gateway":"false", "install-no-conntrack-iptables-rules":"false"}}'
```

An example of the results of the connectivity tests after patch:

```text
✅ All 32 tests (195 actions) successful, 0 tests skipped, 0 scenarios skipped.
```

### bpfLBMode=SNAT + tunnelMode=VXLAN

Cilium settings:

```yaml
bpfLBMode: SNAT
tunnelMode: VXLAN
```

Problems with using this mode:

> - It is not possible to access nodes (curl, ping) from the pod network using external ip addresses of nodes (except node where is pod is located).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is impossible to access nodes (curl, ping) from the Pod network using external IP addresses of nodes (except the node where the Pod is located).
```

  ❌ allow-all-except-world/pod-to-host/ping-1: cilium-test/client-784c67ffc4-6jkkz (10.111.60.83) -> 84.201.158.188 (84.201.158.188:0)
  ❌ allow-all-except-world/pod-to-host/ping-3: cilium-test/client-784c67ffc4-6jkkz (10.111.60.83) -> 51.250.79.66 (51.250.79.66:0)
  ❌ allow-all-except-world/pod-to-host/ping-7: cilium-test/client2-67754cb6fb-nvfjp (10.111.60.133) -> 51.250.79.66 (51.250.79.66:0)
  ❌ allow-all-except-world/pod-to-host/ping-11: cilium-test/client2-67754cb6fb-nvfjp (10.111.60.133) -> 84.201.158.188 (84.201.158.188:0)
Test [host-entity]:
  ❌ host-entity/pod-to-host/ping-3: cilium-test/client-784c67ffc4-6jkkz (10.111.60.83) -> 84.201.158.188 (84.201.158.188:0)
  ❌ host-entity/pod-to-host/ping-5: cilium-test/client-784c67ffc4-6jkkz (10.111.60.83) -> 51.250.79.66 (51.250.79.66:0)
  ❌ host-entity/pod-to-host/ping-7: cilium-test/client2-67754cb6fb-nvfjp (10.111.60.133) -> 51.250.79.66 (51.250.79.66:0)
  ❌ host-entity/pod-to-host/ping-11: cilium-test/client2-67754cb6fb-nvfjp (10.111.60.133) -> 84.201.158.188 (84.201.158.188:0)

```

### bpfLBMode=Hybrid + tunnelMode=VXLAN

Cilium settings:

```yaml
bpfLBMode: Hybrid
tunnelMode: VXLAN
```

Problems with using this mode:

> - It is not possible to access nodes (ping, curl) from the pod network using external ip addresses of nodes (except node where is pod is located).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is impossible to access nodes (ping, curl) from the Pod network using external IP addresses of nodes (except the node where the Pod is located).
```
